Remove `xml:lang` from language rules (de46e4, b5c3f8, bf051a, 5b7ae0) (#934)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/html-has-lang-b5c3f8.md

## Applicability

This rule applies to any [document element](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#document-element) if it is an `html` element.

## Expectation

Each test target has a `lang` attribute that is neither empty ("") nor only [ASCII whitespace](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#ascii-whitespace).

## Assumptions

> - [Documents](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-document) are served with a [content type](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-document-content-type) of `text/html`. If a document is served using a different content type, this can affect the interpretation of the `lang` attribute.

Reviewer: This is an editorial change that we are introducing in #935 . This is why I am suggesting it for this rule.

- The presence of a `lang` attribute is being used to comply to WCAG. This rule doesn't test if the attribute is needed to comply to WCAG.

## Accessibility Support

There are known combinations of a popular operating system with browsers and assistive technologies that do not support the `lang` attribute.

## Background

- [H57: Using language attributes on the html element](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H57)
- [BCP 47: Tags for Identifying Languages](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/bcp/bcp47.txt)

> - [MDN: `lang` attribute](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/lang)

Reviewer 2: Don't we usually avoid citing MDN?
Probably for another PR, however...

Author: I think that listing MDN as background material is fine; it's not a normative reference.

> 

Reviewer 3: > Note: Documents embedded into other documents, such as through iframe or object elements are not applicable because they are not web pages according to the definition in WCAG.

I think this leaves a gap in the rules because iframes are not checked by https://act-rules.github.io/rules/de46e4 (language of parts) or https://act-rules.github.io/rules/b5c3f8 (language of page). `lang` is not inherited from the parent document according to this comment https://stackoverflow.com/a/53759156

The seems right because iframe security restrictions (e.g. sandbox) are supposed to prevent the iframe documents from accessing parent document state (including lang)

Author: That's a good point. Updating.

Author: Will move this update to a separate PR.

## Expectation

> Each test target has a `lang` attribute that is neither empty ("") nor only [whitespace](#whitespace).

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't this be ASCII whitespace (https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#ascii-whitespace) or is that a different pull request?

Author: Gah, I forgot to change it 🤦‍♂

## Assumptions

> This rule assumes that [documents](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-document) are served with a [content type](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-document-content-type) of `text/html`. If a document is served using a different content type, this can affect the interpretion of the `lang` attribute.

Reviewer 3: This assumption good - Common Crawl data shows that Content-Types that cause pages to be interpreted as XHTML are very rare (approx 0.06% of pages)
https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/issues/668#issuecomment-534480359

> This rule assumes that [documents](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-document) are served with a [content type](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-document-content-type) of `text/html`. If a document is served using a different content type, this can affect the interpretion of the `lang` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Documents](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-document) are served with a [content type](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-document-content-type) of `text/html`. If a document is served using a different content type, this can affect the interpretation of the `lang` attribute.
```

<html lang="en"></html>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

There was no `lang` attribute specified.

```html
<html></html>
```

#### Failed Example 2

The `lang` attribute specified is empty ("").

```html
<html lang=""></html>
```

#### Failed Example 3

The `lang` attribute consists of only [ASCII whitespace](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#ascii-whitespace).

```html
<html lang=" "></html>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

The rule does not apply to `svg` element.

```svg
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"></svg>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

The rule does not apply to `math` element.

```svg

> <math></math>

Author: There's no content though and so no language is needed.

<html lang="en"></html>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

> There were no `lang` attribute specified.

Reviewer 3: Typo - should be: "There was no `lang` attribute specified."

```html
<html></html>
```

#### Failed Example 2

The `lang` attribute specified is empty ("").

```html
<html lang=""></html>
```

#### Failed Example 3

The `lang` attribute consists of only [ASCII whitespace](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#ascii-whitespace).

```html
<html lang=" "></html>
```

### Inapplicable

> #### Inapplicable Example 1

Reviewer 3: Might be worth adding an Inapplicable Example for MathML as well - there's no `lang` attribute in MathML but `xml:lang` is allowed
https://www.w3.org/TR/MathML3/mathml.html#appendixi_index.att

> #### Inapplicable Example 1

Author: Only failed test cases are allowed to actually fail the associated accessibility requirements, for the purpose of the implementation mapping: https://act-rules.github.io/pages/implementations/mapping/. This doesn't seem to be super explicit at the moment though; did we document this somewhere, @WilcoFiers?

> #### Inapplicable Example 1

Reviewer 3: Yep, what I was meaning is that rule code is usually written to detect failures e.g. a missing lang attribute. 

That means an inapplicable SVG example with no 'lang' attribute will find implementations that wrongly detect missing 'lang' on SVG. 

But an inapplicable SVG example with a 'lang' attribute cannot find implementations that wrongly detect missing 'lang' on SVG (because the incorrect implementation never triggers when `lang` is present).
